well turning now to the protests we've
been seeing across universities in the
United States against Israel's war on
Gaza police have removed tents from the
Palestinian solidarity encampment at the
University of Virginia in
Charlottesville let's take a look as you
see there police moved in on that camp
where protesters had been based for some
5 days now earlier in the week
University officials had permitted the
students to hold a demonstration on the
condition that they did not put up tents
or use loudspeakers
well let's speak to Teresa B she's
across this student movement for us from
New York Teresa it looked like it got a
little messy in Charlottesville can you
talk us through what happened there
between police and the
students well correct what happened in
University of Virginia is basically what
we've been seeing happening elsewhere
all across the country with students
starting to protest uh and then setting
up encampments and then those
encampments being removed by force by
the police in this case in particular
it's been several days since students
were protesting in the University they
had several demands among them for
example which is divestment from
companies that students believe are
profiting from the war this is not in a
way what they're demanding they're
saying that this is something that
happened during the anti- aerte movement
for example and that it was carried out
by many universities in the United
States and that's why their demand is a
legitimate one so the university said
that they were not going going to meet
this demands and that's when they set up
an encampment and the early this
Saturday morning the police arve state
troopers arrived they said that they had
to remove the encamp bed there were
around 20 students but then the group
become became much larger there were
some confrontations the police started
using tear gas pepper spray and we saw
how several students were dragged out
from the campus University campus and
detained and that's what we've been
seeing happening all across New York
City
and in several other parts of the
country you know students are convinced
that they're fighting for uh justice
that they are in this U civil rights
movement in a way defending at just cost
comparing it to what happened during the
Vietnam War when students protesting
against the war against Herer head among
many other things and that why many are
saying that they'll go back that they'll
continue protesting until this war is
over Theresa as you say there have been
confrontations and and many arrests too
in New York where you are I know you've
been speaking to students there it
certainly sounds like like there's an
air of defiance you expect this to
continue even even into the summer
Beyond
graduations we're going to have to see
what happens what I can tell you is that
on Friday where I am standing right now
which is the new school in lower uh New
York City at least 27 people were
detained here on the building right in
front of where I am 20 people were
detained and even though they were taken
to a police station later on many were
released they are being charged with
misdem Miner for example again the
students took to the streets to protest
across New York City there were hundreds
of people that gathered there to demand
an end to the war in Gaza to demand
ceasefire to demand that the
universities divest from Israel so
certainly it is a moment time of
regrouping in a way of of finding how
they're going to continue with this
movement let's not forget that thousands
of students have been detained many of
them are right now dealing with legal
situation we know that for example in
many universities across the country law
students are assisting their other
students that have been detained so
there's a whole movement around what is
happening in the country right now we're
going to have to see how here in New
York City the situation continue but the
students that we have spoken to say are
are telling me that they'll be on the
streets uh once again
Teresa B covering that student movement
for us from New York thank you very much
Teresa well students at the University
of California and Irvine say that they
will remain on their campus until all
their demands are met protesters are
demanding that their University divest
from businesses as Teresa was describing
with tires to Israeli and weapons
manufacturers University officials say
they'll continue to negotiate with
students and that they're optimistic
that they'll reach a deal soon well
let's bring in our correspondent gabri
alander he joins us now live from that
campus there in Irvine Gabe I can see
from well just behind you that the
encampment is very much Still Standing
so those talks are ongoing but the
students are standing
strong they are there are several dozen
protesters here at this encampment that
you see behind me it's day six and they
are negotiating with the uh University
administrators uh over several rounds of
talks uh about trying to meet these
student protesters demands one of which
among many uh or several I should say is
full divestment of any companies that
this University deals with that has any
uh business dealings with Israel of
course uh so there are negotiations
going on not today but they're going to
meet perhaps again as early as Monday
and the protesters here are hopeful that
they could reach some sort of agreement
clearly the pressure seems to be working
and when I say pressure I mean the
pressure of this encampment uh
everything is very peaceful here uh
there's actually families that have come
out here with children that are going
into the encampment uh taking part in
lectures and and paintings and and you
see uh elderly people here as well it's
all very very peaceful and we're seeing
scenes that are much different than what
we're seeing in Virginia on Saturday
where Riot police confronted uh
protesters here actually uh there was
one agitator a couple hours ago that
showed up here and that was taking video
of some of the protesters uh without
their permission he was a clear agitator
actually a campus police officer came in
said please stop and escorted him away
deescalate the situation so that is an
example of uh here at least here in that
one uh example of a deescalation no real
police presence here at all it's not
really needed and uh for the most part
and that's why uh things here are moving
along for the most part as when I talk
to the protesters uh very well as this
encampment will continue they say until
their demands are fully met Gab by I can
see some balloons floating in the air
there behind you as you say it it's
incredibly different between what's
happening there and other campuses like
the University of Virginia but certainly
very different to what took place at
UCLA which was not all that far away
this is the same University a different
campus
right yeah that's right and it really
shows you how um the the the
administrators of each University really
have a choice they have a choice to
either escalate and call in police and
be confrontational or they have a choice
to actually listen to come to these
encampments listen to what these young
people as well as professors as I should
point out are taking part in this as
well it's not just students it's
primarily students but it's it's also
alumni it's professors as well and
actually listen to what their concerns
are listen to what their demands are to
try to reach some sort of agreement and
deescalate the situation and that's what
you're clearly seeing here but uh uh
this is pretty much uh the the the
exception not the rule of course because
as we see on our TV screens and from
coverage from our colleagues all over
the United States in the last several
days uh many universities are taking a
much more confrontational approach which
quite frankly is unfortunate but one of
the protesters I spoke to here said she
hopes that this is an example of what
can be achieved perhaps again they're
still negotiating so we're not there yet
but
at least there is some discussion going
on and we'll stay that stay across that
for you here on alzer for now gabrielo
there and at the campus of University of
California at Irvine thank you for that
update Gabriel